389-ds.adoc, before:

== Install and configure 389 Directory Server

On a CentOS 7 box as root:

[source,sh]
----
cd WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"
nssStoreDir="${wfcore2647Dir}/nss-store"

# Add the EPEL repo
yum install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm

# Optionally clean the previous attempts
systemctl stop dirsrv.target
rm -Rf /etc/dirsrv
rm -Rf /var/lock/dirsrv
rm -Rf /var/lib/dirsrv/

yum -y remove 389-ds openldap-clients

# Install the DS
yum -y install 389-ds openldap-clients


host="osboxes"
domain="mylocaldomain"
fqdn="${host}.${domain}"
rootDNPwd="nUmZW75U"

# 389-ds is picky about having FQDN setup properly
hostnamectl set-hostname "${fqdn}"
hostname -s
# should return what we have in ${host}
hostname -d
# should return what we have in ${domain}

# Prepare the init file:

echo "[General]
FullMachineName= ${fqdn}
SuiteSpotUserID= nobody
SuiteSpotGroup= nobody
AdminDomain= ${domain}
ConfigDirectoryAdminID= admin
ConfigDirectoryAdminPwd= admin
ConfigDirectoryLdapURL= ldap://${fqdn}:389/o=NetscapeRoot

[slapd]
SlapdConfigForMC= Yes
UseExistingMC= No
ServerPort= 389
ServerIdentifier= ${host}
Suffix= dc=keycloak,dc=org
RootDN= cn=Directory Manager
RootDNPwd= ${rootDNPwd}

[admin]
Port= 9830
ServerIpAddress= 0.0.0.0
ServerAdminID= admin
ServerAdminPwd= admin" > /tmp/389-init.inf

setup-ds-admin.pl -s -f /tmp/389-init.inf

systemctl enable dirsrv.target
systemctl enable dirsrv-admin


firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=389/tcp
firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=636/tcp
firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=9830/tcp
firewall-cmd --reload

# switch to ipv4
ldif="dn: cn=config
changetype: modify
replace: nsslapd-listenhost
nsslapd-listenhost: 0.0.0.0"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}
systemctl restart dirsrv.target
netstat -tulpen | grep 389
# should return tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:389             0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      0          86293      15322/ns-slapd


# Import users
echo "
dn: ou=RealmRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: organizationalUnit
ou: RealmRoles

dn: ou=FinanceRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: organizationalUnit
ou: FinanceRoles

dn: uid=jbrown,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: person
objectclass: organizationalPerson
objectclass: inetOrgPerson
uid: jbrown
cn: James
sn: Brown
mail: jbrown@keycloak.org
postalCode: 88441
userPassword: password

dn: uid=bwilson,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: person
objectclass: organizationalPerson
objectclass: inetOrgPerson
uid: bwilson
cn: Bruce
sn: Wilson
mail: bwilson@keycloak.org
postalCode: 88441
postalCode: 77332
postalCode: 66221
street: Elm 5
userPassword: password

dn: cn=ldap-user,ou=RealmRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: groupOfNames
cn: ldap-user
member: uid=jbrown,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org
member: uid=bwilson,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org

dn: cn=ldap-admin,ou=RealmRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: groupOfNames
cn: ldap-admin
member: uid=jbrown,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org

dn: cn=accountant,ou=FinanceRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: groupOfNames
cn: accountant
member: uid=bwilson,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org
" \
 | ldapadd -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}



# Enable SSL

yes | cp -Rf -t "/etc/dirsrv/slapd-${host}" "${nssStoreDir}/"*

chown -R nobody:nobody "/etc/dirsrv/slapd-${host}"/*
echo "Internal (Software) Token:" > "/etc/dirsrv/slapd-${host}/pin.txt"
chmod 0400 "/etc/dirsrv/slapd-${host}/pin.txt"

ldif="
dn: cn=config
changetype: modify
add: nsslapd-security
nsslapd-security: on
-
replace: nsslapd-ssl-check-hostname
nsslapd-ssl-check-hostname: off
-
replace: nsslapd-secureport
nsslapd-secureport: 636
-
add: nsslapd-securelistenhost
nsslapd-securelistenhost: 0.0.0.0"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}

ldif="dn: cn=RSA,cn=encryption,cn=config
changetype: add
objectclass: top
objectclass: nsEncryptionModule
cn: RSA
nsSSLPersonalitySSL: openldap.local
nsSSLToken: internal (software)
nsSSLActivation: on"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}

systemctl restart dirsrv.target


# make sure nsSSLClientAuth is allowed
ldapsearch -p 389 -D "cn=directory manager" -w password -s sub -b "cn=encryption,cn=config" -h localhost -w ${rootDNPwd} "(objectclass=*)" nsSSLClientAuth
# Should return nsSSLClientAuth: allowed

# eventually check if the slapd sends the cert
openssl s_client -connect localhost:636 -CAfile "${wfcore2647Dir}/ca/certs/ca.local-cert.pem"  -msg

----


== Configure WildFly

=== `nsSSLClientAuth: allowed`

Frist check whether WF can auth with `nsSSLClientAuth: allowed` that we have set in the 389 DS config above:

[source,sh]
----

cd  WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"

cd wildfly
git fetch origin
# reset to a revision known to reproduce WFCORE-2647
rev="70315ea"
git reset --hard "${rev}"
mvn clean install -DskipTests -Denforcer.skip -Dcheckstyle.skip

rm -Rf "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
mkdir "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
cp -R -t "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run" dist/target/wildfly-*/*

cp -t "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run/standalone/configuration" "${wfcore2647Dir}/389-ds/${rev}-standalone.xml"

cd "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
chmod +x bin/standalone.sh
bin/standalone.sh
----

Visit http://localhost:9990 in browser and log in with jbrown password. It should work. Stop WildFly.


=== `nsSSLClientAuth: off`

Then check whether WF can auth with `nsSSLClientAuth: off`:

[source,sh]
----
# as root on the 389 box
cd WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"

ldif="
dn: cn=encryption,cn=config
changetype: modify
replace: nsSSLClientAuth
nsSSLClientAuth: off"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}

systemctl restart dirsrv.target

----

Start WildFly in `wildfly-run` folder and visit http://localhost:9990 in browser and log in with jbrown password. It should still work. Stop WildFly.


=== `nsSSLClientAuth: required`

Now reproduce the actuall WFCORE-2647.


[source,sh]
----
cd WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"

ldif="
dn: cn=encryption,cn=config
changetype: modify
replace: nsSSLClientAuth
nsSSLClientAuth: required"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}

systemctl restart dirsrv.target

----

Start WildFly in `wildfly-run` folder and visit http://localhost:9990 in browser and log in with jbrown password. It should *not* work. Stop WildFly.


== Verify that the fix works, still with `nsSSLClientAuth: required`

Upgrade the container to a version that contains the WFCORE-2647 fix

[source,sh]
----

cd  WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"

cd wildfly
git fetch origin
# reset to a revision known to reproduce WFCORE-2647
rev="a542015"
git reset --hard "${rev}"
mvn clean install -DskipTests -Denforcer.skip -Dcheckstyle.skip

rm -Rf "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
mkdir "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
cp -R -t "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run" dist/target/wildfly-*/*

cp -t "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run/standalone/configuration" "${wfcore2647Dir}/389-ds/${rev}-standalone.xml"

cd "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
chmod +x bin/standalone.sh
bin/standalone.sh
----

Visit http://localhost:9990 in browser and log in with jbrown password. It should work. Stop WildFly.

Commit message:

Fix the handling of ${ldap.server.url} property and add the final test with incorrect password.

389-ds.adoc, after:

== Install and configure 389 Directory Server

On a CentOS 7 box as root:

[source,sh]
----
cd WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"
nssStoreDir="${wfcore2647Dir}/nss-store"

# Add the EPEL repo
yum install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm

# Optionally clean the previous attempts
systemctl stop dirsrv.target
rm -Rf /etc/dirsrv
rm -Rf /var/lock/dirsrv
rm -Rf /var/lib/dirsrv/

yum -y remove 389-ds openldap-clients

# Install the DS
yum -y install 389-ds openldap-clients


host="osboxes"
domain="mylocaldomain"
fqdn="${host}.${domain}"
rootDNPwd="nUmZW75U"

# 389-ds is picky about having FQDN setup properly
hostnamectl set-hostname "${fqdn}"
hostname -s
# should return what we have in ${host}
hostname -d
# should return what we have in ${domain}

# Prepare the init file:

echo "[General]
FullMachineName= ${fqdn}
SuiteSpotUserID= nobody
SuiteSpotGroup= nobody
AdminDomain= ${domain}
ConfigDirectoryAdminID= admin
ConfigDirectoryAdminPwd= admin
ConfigDirectoryLdapURL= ldap://${fqdn}:389/o=NetscapeRoot

[slapd]
SlapdConfigForMC= Yes
UseExistingMC= No
ServerPort= 389
ServerIdentifier= ${host}
Suffix= dc=keycloak,dc=org
RootDN= cn=Directory Manager
RootDNPwd= ${rootDNPwd}

[admin]
Port= 9830
ServerIpAddress= 0.0.0.0
ServerAdminID= admin
ServerAdminPwd= admin" > /tmp/389-init.inf

setup-ds-admin.pl -s -f /tmp/389-init.inf

systemctl enable dirsrv.target
systemctl enable dirsrv-admin


firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=389/tcp
firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=636/tcp
firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=9830/tcp
firewall-cmd --reload

# switch to ipv4
ldif="dn: cn=config
changetype: modify
replace: nsslapd-listenhost
nsslapd-listenhost: 0.0.0.0"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}
systemctl restart dirsrv.target
netstat -tulpen | grep 389
# should return tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:389             0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      0          86293      15322/ns-slapd


# Import users
echo "
dn: ou=RealmRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: organizationalUnit
ou: RealmRoles

dn: ou=FinanceRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: organizationalUnit
ou: FinanceRoles

dn: uid=jbrown,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: person
objectclass: organizationalPerson
objectclass: inetOrgPerson
uid: jbrown
cn: James
sn: Brown
mail: jbrown@keycloak.org
postalCode: 88441
userPassword: password

dn: uid=bwilson,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: person
objectclass: organizationalPerson
objectclass: inetOrgPerson
uid: bwilson
cn: Bruce
sn: Wilson
mail: bwilson@keycloak.org
postalCode: 88441
postalCode: 77332
postalCode: 66221
street: Elm 5
userPassword: password

dn: cn=ldap-user,ou=RealmRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: groupOfNames
cn: ldap-user
member: uid=jbrown,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org
member: uid=bwilson,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org

dn: cn=ldap-admin,ou=RealmRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: groupOfNames
cn: ldap-admin
member: uid=jbrown,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org

dn: cn=accountant,ou=FinanceRoles,dc=keycloak,dc=org
objectclass: top
objectclass: groupOfNames
cn: accountant
member: uid=bwilson,ou=People,dc=keycloak,dc=org
" \
 | ldapadd -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}



# Enable SSL

yes | cp -Rf -t "/etc/dirsrv/slapd-${host}" "${nssStoreDir}/"*

chown -R nobody:nobody "/etc/dirsrv/slapd-${host}"/*
echo "Internal (Software) Token:" > "/etc/dirsrv/slapd-${host}/pin.txt"
chmod 0400 "/etc/dirsrv/slapd-${host}/pin.txt"

ldif="
dn: cn=config
changetype: modify
add: nsslapd-security
nsslapd-security: on
-
replace: nsslapd-ssl-check-hostname
nsslapd-ssl-check-hostname: off
-
replace: nsslapd-secureport
nsslapd-secureport: 636
-
add: nsslapd-securelistenhost
nsslapd-securelistenhost: 0.0.0.0"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}

ldif="dn: cn=RSA,cn=encryption,cn=config
changetype: add
objectclass: top
objectclass: nsEncryptionModule
cn: RSA
nsSSLPersonalitySSL: openldap.local
nsSSLToken: internal (software)
nsSSLActivation: on"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}

systemctl restart dirsrv.target


# make sure nsSSLClientAuth is allowed
ldapsearch -p 389 -D "cn=directory manager" -w password -s sub -b "cn=encryption,cn=config" -h localhost -w ${rootDNPwd} "(objectclass=*)" nsSSLClientAuth
# Should return nsSSLClientAuth: allowed

# eventually check if the slapd sends the cert
openssl s_client -connect localhost:636 -CAfile "${wfcore2647Dir}/ca/certs/ca.local-cert.pem"  -msg

----


== Configure WildFly

=== `nsSSLClientAuth: allowed`

Frist check whether WF can auth with `nsSSLClientAuth: allowed` that we have set in the 389 DS config above:

[source,sh]
----

cd  WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"

cd wildfly
git fetch origin
# reset to a revision known to reproduce WFCORE-2647
rev="70315ea"
git reset --hard "${rev}"
mvn clean install -DskipTests -Denforcer.skip -Dcheckstyle.skip

rm -Rf "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
mkdir "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
cp -R -t "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run" dist/target/wildfly-*/*

cp "${wfcore2647Dir}/389-ds/${rev}-standalone.xml" "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run/standalone/configuration/standalone.xml"

cd "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
chmod +x bin/standalone.sh
bin/standalone.sh
----

Visit http://localhost:9990 in browser and log in with jbrown password. It should work. Stop WildFly.


=== `nsSSLClientAuth: off`

Then check whether WF can auth with `nsSSLClientAuth: off`:

[source,sh]
----
# as root on the 389 box
cd WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"

ldif="
dn: cn=encryption,cn=config
changetype: modify
replace: nsSSLClientAuth
nsSSLClientAuth: off"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}

systemctl restart dirsrv.target

----

Start WildFly in `wildfly-run` folder and visit http://localhost:9990 in browser and log in with jbrown password. It should still work. Stop WildFly.


=== `nsSSLClientAuth: required`

Now reproduce the actuall WFCORE-2647.


[source,sh]
----
cd WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"

ldif="
dn: cn=encryption,cn=config
changetype: modify
replace: nsSSLClientAuth
nsSSLClientAuth: required"
echo "$ldif" | ldapmodify -a -x -h localhost -p 389 -D cn="Directory Manager" -w ${rootDNPwd}

systemctl restart dirsrv.target

----

Start WildFly in `wildfly-run` folder and visit http://localhost:9990 in browser and log in with jbrown password. It should *not* work. Stop WildFly.


== Verify that the fix works, still with `nsSSLClientAuth: required`

Upgrade the container to a version that contains the WFCORE-2647 fix

[source,sh]
----

cd  WFCORE-2647
wfcore2647Dir="$(pwd)"

cd wildfly
git fetch origin
# reset to a revision where WFCORE-2647 is fixed
rev="a542015"
git reset --hard "${rev}"
mvn clean install -DskipTests -Denforcer.skip -Dcheckstyle.skip

rm -Rf "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
mkdir "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
cp -R -t "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run" dist/target/wildfly-*/*

cp "${wfcore2647Dir}/389-ds/${rev}-standalone.xml" "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run/standalone/configuration/standalone.xml"

cd "${wfcore2647Dir}/wildfly-run"
chmod +x bin/standalone.sh
bin/standalone.sh
----

Visit http://localhost:9990 in browser:

* Log in with jbrown password. It should work.
* Also make sure the LDAP server does not understand the client cert as complete credentials. While we send a trusted client
  cert and we log in with incorrect password, the auth should fail. Hence log in with jbrown blah and it should not work.

Stop WildFly.
